Let's do a walk-through for our final project.
First, we will configure the FMCW waveform based on the system requirements.
Then, we will define the range and velocity of target and simulate its displacement.
For the same simulation loop,
we will process the transmit and receive signal to determine the beat signal.
After that, we will perform range of FFT on the received signal to determine the range.
Then towards the end,
we will perform the CFAR processing on the output of second FFT to display the target.
Here we have the system requirements.
As you can see in this table,
we want to design a radar which operates at
77 gigahertz and has a range resolution of one meter.
It should be able to detect the targets at 200 meter,
at the max velocity of 70 meter per second.
Using them, we can define our FMCW waveform.
In the code, provide the initial range and velocity of the target.
Range cannot exceed the max value of 200 meters,
and the velocity can be any value in the range of minus 70 to plus 70 meter per second.
Next, calculate the FMCW chirp parameters.
This is where we model the signal propagation.
In terms of wave equation,
this is how the FMCW transmit and receive signals are defined.
A received signal is just the time delayed version of the transmit signal.
On mixing these two signals,
we can calculate the range and Doppler information
for targets as seen in the last equation.
The FFT implementation directly extracts both.
Similarly the target displacement for constant velocity model.
For each displacement, measure the beat signal.
Rather loop for a length of total time,
then displace the target at each time stamp based on its initial constant velocity.
At the same time, keep updating
the trip time which is also the delay time for received signal.
Update the transmit and received signal,
and at the end mix the transmitted received signal to generate the beat signal.
Moving on to the next part.
Here, first reshape the mixed signal into a dimension
of number of range samples into number of Doppler samples,
then implement the Range FFT or one-dimensional FFT
along the range dimension of the mix signal, just calculated.
Once you implement the range of FFT,
you will get a peek at the targets range value.
We just need to make sure that the peak is at correct range.
At this point, don't worry about the amplitude.
Now, implementing 2D FFT.
The code for 2D FFT is already part of
the main file and the output which is Range Doppler map appears like this.
What we generally see is the bird's eye view of this plot.
Here, the peak belongs to the target,
and a three-axis relates to its estimated range,
velocity, and signal strength.
The image is colored map as per signal strength.
As you can see in the image,
there is distributed noise everywhere else.
Some of this highest trend noise can create false alarms.
Next, we're going to implement the 2DC four on the output of second FFT.
Here, we'll be estimating the noise threshold
dynamically by measuring the average signal level in the training cells.
Only if the signal level in the cell and the test is higher than the threshold,
then we declare it as a target.
Let's see how to implement the code for 2D C4.
Determine the number of training sales for each dimension.
Similarly, take the number of Guard cells.
Set as an offset based on the SNR value.
Slide the cell and a test across the complete matrix.
Make sure it is the training and guard cells away from all the edges of the 2D matrix.
Now, step through each of the bins and the great surrounding the cell under test.
Exclude the guard cells and cell under
test such that only the training cells a step through for measuring noise.
Once done, now measure the noise across
the training cells and take an average. Point to note.
You cannot sum this db values,
so you need to convert it into power using db2 power function,
and after summing and averaging,
convert it back to db using power to db function.
Then, add the offset to the threshold to keep the false alarm to the desired value.
At the end, determine the signal level at the cell under test so that,
if the signal and the cell under test is greater than the threshold,
then assign it a value one,
else equate it to zero.
This should be the output of your hard work.
As you can see, the two-dimensional C4 process
thresholds all the noise and just spits out the real target.